.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii foo.1
.\"
.TH knowntypes 1 "August 2010" bullx "Sequencer Manual"
.SH NAME
sequencer knowntypes \- Display the types known by the given
ruleset along with starting rules that will be applied on them for the
computation of the dependency graph.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sequencer
[global_options]
.B knowntypes
[action_options]
.I ruleset
.SH DESCRIPTION
This action displays the types of component the given
.I ruleset
understand, and for each such type, the rule that we be applied on it
first for the computation of the dependency graph.

In particular, for a given component type 'type1@cat1', if two rules A
and B applies on it, then the upper in the rules graph will be applied
first. For example, if A depends on B, then only A will be applied on
a component of type 'type1@cat1' if that component is given on the
command line to the the sequencer. For example, consider the
following command line:

.EX
sequencer myruleset c1#type1@cat1 c2#type2@cat2
.EE

Rule A will be applied on both c1 and c2. Hovewer, if the depsfinder
of A for component c1 returns c2, then rule B will also be applied on
c2.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
.TQ
.B \-\-help
show this help message and exit

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
if OK,
.TP
.B n > 0
if something went wrong.
.SH FILES
In the following, CONFDIR is the configuration directory. Default is
/etc/sequencer/<cmd>/. See section
.B FILES
of
.BR sequencer (1)
for details.
.TP
.B CONFDIR/config
The general sequencer configuration file. See
.BR sequencer (1)
.TP
.B CONFDIR/*.rs
Ruleset files. See
.BR sequencer (1)
.SH EXAMPLE
Known types for the 'stop' ruleset
.RS 4
.EX
$ sequencer knowntypes stop
.EE
.RE

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.SS "Sequencer"
.BR sequencer (1)
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright [\co] 2010 Bull S.A.S. License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or
later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
