.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii foo.1
.\"
.TH seqexec 1 "August 2010" bullx "Sequencer Manual"
.SH NAME
sequencer seqexec \- Execute the sequence of instructions given.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sequencer
[global_options]
.B seqexec
[action_options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B seqexec
action invokes the Instructions Sequence Executor (ISE), the third
stage of the
.BR sequencer (1).
It is used for the actual execution of a sequence of instructions that
is usually computed by
.BR seqmake (1).
A sequence of instructions is an XML file that follows the XSD
Schema installed at
.B sequencer/ise/ise.xsd
relative to your Python library directory (usually at
/usr/lib/python2.6/site-packages).

If, an action specified in the given instructions sequence exits with:
.TP
.B OK = 0
next dependent instructions are executed normally;
.TP
.B WARNING = 75
next dependent instructions are not
executed unless action XML
.B force
attribute is
.B always
or unless option
.B \-\-Force
is specified and action XML
.B force
attribute is
.B allowed;
.TP
.B ERROR = ( code != OK AND code != WARNING )
next dependent instructions are not
executed.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
.TQ
.B \-\-help
show this help message and exit
.TP
.BI \-f " FILE"
.TQ
.BI \-\-file= FILE
Use the instructions sequence given in input
.I FILE
instead of stdin.
.TP
.B \-F
.TQ
.B \-\-Force
Do not stop the execution of an action when one of its dependencies
exits with a
.B WARNING
error code. This applies only to dependencies with a
.B force
XML attribute
set to
.BR allowed .
Which is the default. Other attributes are
.B always
and
.BR never .
See
.BR seqexec (5)
for details on the
.B force
action attribute.
.TP
.BI \-\-actionsgraphto= FILE
Write the dependency graph computed from the input instuctions
sequence to the given output
.IR FILE .
The output file is in DOT format. (Graphviz
.BR dotty (1)
command can be used for its visualisation for example).
.TP
.B \-\-progress=n
Display a progress report every
.I n
seconds (roughly).
.TP
.BR \-\-doexec= [ yes | no ]
If
.BR no ,
do not execute anything. This is often used with
.B \-\-report model
and/or
.B \-\-actionsgraphto
options in order to watch what will be done before the actual
execution.
.TP
.BI \-\-report= TYPE
Display the corresponding report
.IR TYPE .
.I TYPE
can be one of:
.RS
.IP - 2
.BR none :
do not display any report.
.IP - 2
.BR model :
for each action specified in the input file, display its
id, component set, description, and dependencies (Deps).
.IP - 2
.BR exec :
for each executed action, display its id, submitted time, started
time, ended time, duration, returned code and component set
.IP - 2
.BR error :
for each executed action that exited with the
.B ERROR
code or with the
.B WARNING
code (unless
.B \-\-Force
option has been specified), display its id, returned code and reverse
dependencies.
.IP - 2
.BR unexec :
for each action that has not been executed, display its id, number of
dependencies and missing dependencies. A missing dependency is a
dependency that prevented an action from being executed (either
because it did not complete succesfully, or because it has not been
executed at all).
.IP - 2
.BR all :
display all reports, in that order: model, exec, error, unexec
.RE
.TP
.BR \-\-dostats =[ yes | no ]
If
.BR yes ,
Display statistics and the overall exit code.
.TP
.BI \-\-fanout= n
Launch a maximum of
.I n
actions in parallel. Increasing the hard limits of 'nproc'
and/or 'nofile' may be required if the value given is too high (See
.BR getrlimit (2)
and
.BR ulimit (1)
for details). On average, each action (a fork) requires a minimum of 3
file descriptors. Therefore, for a given fanout
.IR n ,
the 'nofile' hard limit should be set to 'c+n*(3+d)' where 'c' is the
number of file descriptors required for the execution of the ISE stage
with no actions, and 'd' is the maximum number of supplementary file
descriptors required by any action. When in doubt, selecting 'c=80'
and 'd=2', might give a good upper reasonable hard 'nofile' limit. The
sequencer sets 'nofile' and 'nproc' soft limits to their hard limit
before proceeding.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
if OK,
.TP
.B n > 0
otherwise, if some actions did not complete successfully. The actual
code is taken from the set of executed actions. It is the WARNING code
unless an executed action returned something different than OK or
WARNING.
.SH FILES
In the following, CONFDIR is the configuration directory. Default is
/etc/sequencer/<cmd>/. See section
.B FILES
of
.BR sequencer (1)
for details.
.TP
.B CONFDIR/config
The general sequencer configuration file. See
.BR sequencer (1)
.TP
.B sequencer/ise/ise.xsd
the
.BR seqexec (5)
input XML schema.
.SH EXAMPLE
Standard execution
.RS 4
.EX
$ cat input.ise.xml | sequencer seqexec
.EE
.RE
Use a file directly instead of piping to standard input
.RS 4
.EX
$ sequencer seqexec -f input.ise.xml
.EE
.RE
Same thing with progress report of 1 second
.RS 4
.EX
$ sequencer seqexec -f input.ise.xml \\
                --progress 1
.EE
.RE
Provide some statistics
.RS 4
.EX
$ sequencer seqexec -f input.ise.xml \\
                --dostats=yes
.EE
.RE
Error report only
.RS 4
.EX
$ sequencer seqexec -f input.ise.xml \\
                --report error
.EE
.RE
Be verbose, report all including statistics
.RS 4
.EX
$ sequencer -v seqexec -f input.ise.xml \\
                --report all \\
                --dostats=yes
.EE
.RE
Do not execute but output the actions dependency graph to /tmp/ise.dot,
and provide a model report
.RS 4
.EX
$ sequencer -v seqexec -f input.ise.xml \\
                --doexec=on \\
                --actionsgraphto=/tmp/ise.dot \\
                --report model
.EE
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.SS "Sequencer"
.BR sequencer (1)
.SS "Sequencer ISE Input Formats"
.BR seqexec (5)
.SH AUTHOR
Pierre Vigneras
.UR pierre.vigneras@\:bull.net
.UE
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright \[co] 2010 Bull S.A.S. License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or
later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
