.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii foo.1
.\"
.TH graphrules 1 "August 2010" bullx "Sequencer Manual"
.SH NAME
sequencer graphrules \- produce a DOT format graph representing the
dependencies between rules of a given ruleset.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sequencer
[global_options]
.B graphrules
[action_options]
.I ruleset
.SH DESCRIPTION
This action produces a graph in the DOT format language (see
.BR graphviz (7))
where a vertice in the graph represents a rule in the given ruleset,
and an edge represents a dependency as expressed by the
rule's
.B dependson
field (see rule content description in
.BR depmake (1)).

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h
.TQ
.B \-\-help
show this help message and exit
.TP
.BI \-o " FILE"
.TQ
.BI \-\-out= FILE
Write out the DOT format graph to the given
.I FILE
instead of standard output.  Graphviz
.BR dotty (1)
command can be used for its visualisation for example.

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
if OK,
.TP
.B n > 0
if something went wrong.
.SH FILES
In the following, CONFDIR is the configuration directory. Default is
/etc/sequencer/<cmd>/. See section
.B FILES
of
.BR sequencer (1)
for details.
.TP
.B CONFDIR/config
The general sequencer configuration file. See
.BR sequencer (1)
.TP
.B CONFDIR/*.rs
Ruleset files. See
.BR sequencer (1)
.SH EXAMPLE

Graph rules for the 'stop' ruleset
.RS 4
.EX
$ sequencer graphrules stop
.EE
.RE

Same thing but write out the result to the /tmp/stop.graph.dot
.RS 4
.EX
$ sequencer graphrules stop -o /tmp/stop.graph.dot
.EE
.RE

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.SS "Sequencer"
.BR sequencer (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Pierre Vigneras
.UR pierre.vigneras@\:bull.net
.UE
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright [\co] 2010 Bull S.A.S. License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or
later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.

