.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii foo.1
.\"
.TH sequencer.dgmdb 1 "August 2010" bullx "Sequencer Manual"
.SH NAME
sequencer db* \- Sequencer Dependency Graph Maker Database Management
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sequencer
[global_options]
.B action
[action_options]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sequencer
is used to manage the
.B sequencer
dependency table (also known as the dependency graph maker
database). See
.BR depmake (1)
for details regarding the sequencer table columns name and meaning.

There are two option levels for
.BR sequencer :

.RS 4
.IP - 2
Global Options:
are specified before the action (see
.BR sequencer (1)
for details.)
.IP - 2
Action Options:
are specified after the action.
.RE
.SH ACTIONS
The sequencer command understand the following actions:
.TP 11
.B dbcreate
Create the sequencer table. There are no option. This basically
creates the configuration directory (normally inside
/etc/sequencer/<cmd> where <cmd> is the command name).
.TP
.B dbdrop
.RB [ --Enforce ]
.br
Drop the sequencer table. Use with care. Option
.B \-\-Enforce
can be used to prevent the confirmation. This action does remove
all rulesets from the configuration directory.
.TP
.BR dbshow
[
.BI --columns= COLUMNS_LIST
][
.IR ruleset ]
.br
Display the sequencer table (only for the given
.I ruleset,
if specified). If option
.B --columns
is provided,
.I COLUMNS_LIST
should be a comma separated list of
.I column[:max]
where
.I column
is a column label, and
.I max
is a positive integer. The table is displayed using the specified
maximum number of character for the related columns (0 means remove
the column completely).  Note:
.I max
should be greater than 6. If
.I max is not given at all, then only
specified columns are displayed. For example:

.EX
--columns=filter:0,action:15,name
.EE

displays only columns 'name' and 'action'. This last column is only
displayed with 15 maximum characters. See
.BR depmake (1)
for rule details.
.TP
.B dbadd
.I ruleset name types filter action depsfinder dependson comments
.br
Add a rule to the sequencer table. Multiple
.I types
can be specified using the comma separator ','. Multiple
.I dependson
can be specified using the comma separator ','. Both
.I action
and
.I depsfinder
should be a valid shell command line. Quotes must be used to prevent
misinterpretation by the shell. Value
.B NONE
is only legal for 'action', 'depsfinder' and 'dependson'. See
.BR depmake (1)
for rule details.

.TP
.B dbremove
[
.B --nodeps
][
.B --Enforce
]
.IR ruleset " [" rulename \.\.\.]
.br
Remove all the (given) rules from the sequencer table. Use with
care. Option
.B \-\-Enforce
can be used to prevent the confirmation. Any reference to the given
rulename in the dependson column will be removed unless option
.B \-\-nodeps
is given.

.TP
.B
dbupdate
[
.B --nodeps
]
.I ruleset rulename col1=val1 col2=val2
.br
Update columns
.I col1, col2, ...
of the given rule
(
.IR ruleset ,
.IR rulename )
with values
.I val1, val2, ...
respectively in the sequencer table. When the column
.B name
is present in the parameter, any reference to the given rulename in
the
.B dependson
column will be updated accordingly unless option
.B \-\-nodeps
is given. See
.BR depmake (1)
for rule details.

.TP
.B dbchecksum
[
.I ruleset
]
.br
Compute the checksum for each rule of the given
.I ruleset
(all if unspecified) and of the
.I ruleset
itself (all if unspecified)

.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
if OK,

.TP
.B n > 0
otherwise.

.SH FILES
In the following, CONFDIR is the configuration directory. Default is
/etc/sequencer/<cmd>/. See section
.B FILES
of
.BR sequencer (1)
for details.
.TP
.B CONFDIR/config
The general sequencer configuration file. See
.BR sequencer (1)

.TP
.B CONFDIR/*.rs
Ruleset files. See
.BR sequencer (1)

.SH EXAMPLE
Create a new command for storing rulesets:
.RS 4
.EX
# ln -s $(which sequencer) seqtest
.EE
.RE
Create the dependency table for this command:
.RS 4
.EX
# seqtest dbcreate
.EE
.RE

Add two rules named 'cd-off' and 'node-off' in a 'stop' ruleset.
.RS 4
.EX
# seqtest dbadd 'stop' 'cd-off' 'coldoor' ALL \\
        'nodectrl -F poweroff_force %name \\
        '/bin/find-cd-deps' 'node-off' "PowerOff Colddoor"
# seqtest dbadd 'stop' 'node-off' 'compute|login' NONE \\
        'nodectrl -F poweroff %name' \\
        NONE NONE "PowerOff nodes"
.EE
.RE

Display the sequencer table content:
.RS 4
.EX
# seqtest dbshow
.EE
.RE

Update the 'node-off' rule so filter becomes ALL instead of NONE.
.RS 4
.EX
# seqtest dbupdate 'stop' 'node-off' filter=NONE
.EE
.RE

Compute the checksum of ruleset 'stop'.
.RS 4
.EX
# seqtest dbchecksum stop
.EE
.RE

Compute the checksum of each ruleset.
.RS 4
.EX
# seqtest dbchecksum
.EE
.RE

Remove the 'cd-off' rule without confirmation
.RS 4
.EX
# seqtest -E dbremove 'stop' 'cd-off'
.EE
.RE

Remove the whole 'stop' ruleset without confirmation
.RS 4
.EX
# seqtest -E dbremove 'stop'
.EE
.RE

Drop the sequencer table completely. A confirmation will be asked.
.RS 4
.EX
$ seqtest -E dbdrop
.EE
.RE
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sequencer (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Pierre Vigneras
.UR pierre.vigneras@\:bull.net
.UE
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright [\co] 2010 Bull S.A.S. License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or
later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
