.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii foo.1
.\"
.TH seqexec 5 "August 2010" bullx "Sequencer Manual"
.SH ISE Input File Format
ISE Input File Format \- Instructions Sequence Executor File Format.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.BR seqexec (1)
action of the
.BR sequencer (1)
executes a sequence of instructions specified in an XML input file
that conforms to the XSD Schema installed at
.B sequencer/ise/ise.xsd
relative to your Python library directory (usually at
/usr/lib/python2.6/site-packages).

A set of instructions is specified within the
.B <instructions>
tag of the XML file. Three kind of instructions can be specified:
.TP
.B Action:
defined by the
.B <action>
tag. It specifies the actual command that should be
executed. Attributes are:
.RS 8
.IP - 2
.BR id :
Each action should be identified by a unique string. This attribute is
mandatory.
.IP - 2
.BR desc :
a string that gives a human description of the purpose of the
action. This string is displayed by the ISE when the action is
executed if the
.B \-\-verbose
global option has been specified. This attribute is optionnal. Default
is the empty string: '' if unset.
.IP - 2
.BR component_set :
the set of components this command has a side effect on (if any). This
should be in the following format:
.IR name [ range ]# type ,
where
.I type
is the component type. Example: 'node[1-10]#compute'.  As far as the
ISE component is concerned, this attribute is ignored unless the
.B remote
attribute is set to true (see below). This attribute is
optionnal. Default is 'localhost#unknown'.
.IP - 2
.BR remote :
the command will be executed using the current shell unless this
attribute is set to
.BR true .
In this case, ssh is used to execute the given command on the
specified components described by the
.B component_set
attribute. The command will be executed on each device given by the
first part of the component set name (the substring before the '#'
symbol). This attribute is optionnal. Default is
.B false.
.IP - 2
.BR deps :
a list of ids this action depends on (explicit dependencies). The ISE
will not execute the given command unless all its dependencies
(explicit and implicit, see
.B Sequence
below) have completed successfully. This attribute is
optionnal. Default is the empty string: ''. An executed action is
considered successful in two cases:
.RS 4
.IP * 2
its returned code is 0 (alias
.BR OK ,
python code: os.OK, see 'pydoc os');
.IP * 2
its returned code is 75 (alias
.BR WARNING ,
python code: os.TEMPFAIL, see 'pydoc os') and it has been "forced"
(see option
.B force
below)
.RE
.IP - 2
.BR force :
Specifies how an action completion status should be considered when
its returned code is
.BR WARNING =75.
Valid values are:
.RS 4
.IP * 2
.BR allowed :
the action is considered successful if option
.B \-\-Force
has been given on ISE command line. Otherwise, action is considered
failed.
.IP * 2
.BR always :
the action is always considered successful whether option
.B \-\-Force
is present on the commande line or not.
.IP * 2
.BR never :
the action is never considered successful whether option
.B \-\-Force
is present on the commande line or not.
.RE
.TP
.B Sequence:
defined by the
.B <seq>
tag. It specifies a set of instructions (hence, one of
.BR Action ", " Sequence " or " Parallel )
that must be executed in the given order. This defines implicit
dependencies between instructions.

.TP
.B Parallel:
defined by the
.B <par>
tag. It specifies a set of instructions (hence one
of
.BR Action ", " Sequence " or " Parallel )
that can be executed in any order. This explicitly defines that there
is no dependency between each instruction. The ISE is free to execute
them in parallel. Note that the ISE may or may not execute those
instructions in parallel. This is not a requirement for the successful
completion of parallel instructions.

.SH EXAMPLES
The sequencer package provides some examples at the following location:
/usr/share/doc/sequencer/
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sequencer (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Pierre Vigneras
.UR pierre.vigneras@\:bull.net
.UE
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright [\co] 2010 Bull S.A.S. License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or
later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
