.\" Process this file with
.\" groff -man -Tascii foo.1
.\"
.TH sequencer.ism 5 "August 2010" bullx "Sequencer Manual"
.SH ISM Input File Format
ISM Input File Format \- Instructions Sequence Maker File Format.
.SH DESCRIPTION
.BR sequencer.ism (1)
computes a sequence of instructions from a dependency graph specified
in an XML input file.

The format of the input file is the format of the opensource
pygraph.readwrite.markup Python library available at:
.I http://code.google.com/p/python-graph/

A dependency graph is defined by the <digraph> XML tag.  Inside a
dependency graph, components are specified by the <node> tag. A node
should have a mandatory 'id' attribute of the
form 'name#type@category' (see
.BR guesser (1)
for details on this notation). Actions for a given component are
specified using an <attribute> tag. This tag should have the following
attributes:

.RS 4
.IP - 2
.I attr:
The rule name from which the action comes from

.IP - 2
.I value:
The action referenced.
.RE

Dependencies between components are specified by the <edge> tag. An
edge should have the following mandatory attributes:

.RS 4
.IP - 2
.I from:
The component 'id' for which a dependency is expressed

.IP - 2
.I to:
The component 'id' on which the dependency is expressed.

.IP - 2
.I wt=1:
As required by the pygraph library.

.SH EXAMPLES
The sequencer package provides some examples at the following location:
/usr/share/doc/sequencer/
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sequencer (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Pierre Vigneras
.UR pierre.vigneras@\:bull.net
.UE
.SH "COPYRIGHT"
Copyright \[co] 2010 Bull S.A.S. License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or
later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.


